[Music]
um so this is my talk the future won't
be comfortable at IBM Watson I worked as
a design researcher and UX designer on
creating systems to allow any kind of
user so I'm from the technical to the
non-technical to set up chat robots and
I started to wonder as we as AI is
become a massive thing that we're
talking about engaging as we can win an
alphago or we can win in jeopardy what
is the future of artificial intelligence
and what does that mean for when we
start to imagine capabilities of AI and
machine learning so let's go back the
future that our parents imagined I think
was this comfortable future a lot of our
concepts of the abilities of robots so
AI come from the space age and they come
from the 1960s 1960s was emerging from
the darkness of post-world War two even
with the looming threat of the Cold War
was galvanized optimistically by the
possibility of the exploration of space
in the space race and the affordances of
what technology could do for us how far
it could push us even in our daily lives
it's led to the creation of things like
Tomorrowland at Disney World
two microwavable meals two things that
could enable our daily lives to be
better to go faster to give us more time
this led to these utopian meditations on
Tomorrowland and that's led to a lot of
the work that we see right here ideas of
TV watches of jet packs of meal of meal
pills or perhaps Soylent driverless cars
and robot maids
these concepts were illustrated by
Arthur radabaugh a commercial artist
based in Detroit's best known for his
work in the odds of auto industry we're
looking at one of radabaugh
illustrations but these illustrations
help shape the idea that baby baby
boomers had for futurism it shaped our
parents projects of what technology
could do and it shaped those projections
I don't know necessarily this is the
future I imagine our what I want but I
mean it made me think about what what do
BOTS do now how have we designed BOTS
based off these ideas of futurism hey
bot made by
Microsoft learned how to harass Siri has
a hard time understanding accents and
Cortana was sexually harassed is this
the future we imagined with BOTS and AI
this is the future that we want
Emilio winger Baer scan a machine
learning artists and technologists in
the director of idea New Rochelle and
Arts Initiative states that we were
building our parents dreams and our
grandparents dreams this isn't a future
we imagined but we can make it happen a
TV watch is really an Apple watch how
close are we to driverless car if we ask
Google or uber probably fairly this
future imagine working class tasks and
more feminized labor tasks being
fulfilled by robots or chat BOTS this is
something that Katharine crosses work
has explored I wonder as a as a chatbot
designer why our chat BOTS so gendered
and named especially assistant asset
especially assistant bot as a
technologist and artist for me it's hard
to imagine a future right now of a
mechanized metalworking class with no
humans when universal health care is
being defunded the 1960s had the threat
of the Cold War but with the looming
threat of the ACA being defunded it's
hard to imagine or create a thing that
makes my food faster when I may not be
able to afford groceries as creative
technologist right now what are we
dreaming I do have an idea for what the
future could be perhaps the future is
incredibly collaborative and this is
probably a good time to introduce myself
hi I'm Caroline and I'm a designer and
artist I used to work at IBM Watson and
when I worked on with this idea of how
do you take ideas of technology and
extend extend them beyond to an entire
group of people beyond programmers have
you enabled systems to allow anyone to
create a chatbot for the past few years
I've studied online harassment and
protest since I have social networks
it's currently what I do at Wikimedia
I'm studying online harassment inside of
Wikipedia and but what does this all
mean it means that I look at how
language is analyzed and misused by
machines it means I look at how humans
can understand and misunderstand each
other or how networking out or help from
a network analysis standpoint a
harassment campaign can look nearly
identical to a protest campaign and
where is technology fit into this space
now the goal isn't to replace me by
being an ethnographer I haven't
job I can research I can look and
understand through digital conversations
the context of the conversations and as
a human I can suss that context out
really well I can pick up on social cues
I can learn new slang and I can
understand the intention behind behind
those social cues now social cues are
incredibly nebulous and they're very non
literal it's hard to make something like
a social cue fit into something as
specific instructor does as an Excel
spreadsheet to feed into an algorithm
but that's but that's where a part of my
job comes into play how do you think
about collaborative systems inside of
the machine learning how do you think of
co.design Co designing with machine
learning or Co designing with a very
large and expansive human community in
my case the Wikipedia community if it
sounds like a defense of CO design
collaboration it is and then some when I
what I began to wonder is how do we
create systems I'll offer pushback for
for users with these systems that they
exist in when a chatbot is represented
to society it can be proprietary
proprietary enclosed
it's a finished product when the data
set being used where can i flog
responses how do I find transparency
inside of the system that I have to
interact with and what what can I do as
a designer or as a user to intervene and
as a user how can i how can I see push
back or see cause-and-effect in a
meaningful way I don't need something to
replace my task but I want to think of
artificial intelligence not as
artificial but as an augmented
intelligence how can I vent my
experiences artificial doesn't
necessarily mean right or better than
human experience and I often wonder as a
designer why do we go towards AI
creation towards a humanoid or human
voice or replicating something humans do
really well
instead what if we think of machine
learning and AI as our collaborators
what can I do or what can I create that
can augment a human experience but using
the systems that machine use machines
use really well the future I imagine as
UX designer that works with BOTS and
chat BOTS isn't so much these siloed
work forces or robots or robot slaves
but a space of exploring augmentation
machines can do things really well that
I cannot do it can process large
quantities of data and credibly quickly
how can I use this to extend my own
experience as someone who has to work
with a lot of human data across a lot of
different sections and slices of human
social dynamics and demographics so I'm
trying to think of machine learning as
this augmented intelligence experience
because I love this gift it's on two
different slides so what are spaces that
utilize human expertise in a machine
expertise really well what I like to
what I'm sorry part of machine learning
actually already does this a part of
machine learning
humans have to train the machine systems
and algorithms for accuracy but this is
called ground truth training what sort
of key and reframing this context from
training or maintenance is perhaps
making this a substantial important
emotional and collaborative part of my
job is to actually create a process of
training ground truth so to process data
and then actually go through and train
the system to understand the data data
can be something like how to order a
pizza so you have to train a system to
understand what a pepperoni is it's a
topping or that there's a different kind
of pizza that's already enclosed and in
case such as a vegetarian pizza right
but you have to create all these
different sub slices of what is inside
of this system its systems thinking it's
very useful in attribute let arian but
I want to think of ground truth training
and data collection as this necessary
part of having a collaborative
experience with machine learning so
moving forward how do you also think of
ground truth training and data
collection as a form of protest can we
feed can we can the data we see these
systems be viewed as an art project or
protest can these systems we viewed as
more symbiotic and what does that start
to look like and that in a practical
version this is already coming into
existence with Google's prospective API
which was designed to help moderators
look and analyze toxic language inside
the commenting sections of various
spaces they are also working with
Wikipedia but right now it's being used
with the New York Times moderation team
which is a team of journalists that go
through and hand moderate the comments
that exist across all the New York Times
due to such a high level of contentious
interactions within the commenting
sections they started to turn it off or
not even create spaces for commenting
sections on specific articles and
perspective is been folded into their
daily workflow to enable them to
actually start introducing the
commenting sections back to these
different kinds of art to these
different articles it doesn't replace
moderators but helps augment the
workload in a meaningful way to actually
create spaces for more conversation
Facebook has already hired three
thousand more moderators for their
platform to try to combat online
harassment clearly there is a need in
the space for human augmentation
especially as we look to machine
learning to understand language and
potentially mitigate online harassment
but this is where it's key if you're
creating any kind of system that
understands the context of something as
specific and as hard as conflict versus
harassment abuse versus a
misunderstanding a good faith argument
or a bad faith argument thoughts are
really bad at being human the bots are
really great at being literal and BOTS
are really great at analyzing systems
it's system patterns especially if a
human can guide those can guide those
patterns in practicality I can give you
an example for my own work for the past
six months as a as an open lab fellow of
BuzzFeed and I beam I've been studying
the rise of the alt-right
I'm reading neo-nazi blog so you don't
have to
[Music]
[Applause]
what I've noticed is the state of online
harassment has changed since the
election of Donald Trump it's become
very politically charged prior to
starting my fellowship at BuzzFeed I
spent the past two years studying online
harassment and very specifically
studying gamergate this changed the
entire scope of my workload when the
election happened harassing became much
more politically charged inside the
different ecosystems I was studying
which are 4chan HN and read it again
some pretty specific places to study but
what I noticed that was really
fascinating was the rise of specific
terms that if that lacks a sort of
common understanding I'm showing you a
perhaps a more timid view of this hate
speech dictionary I've been putting
together meaning there's a lot there's a
lot more there's a lot more in there but
I've been thinking about how these words
would appear inside of any kind of
system would be analyzing language do
these seem inherently like toxic or
hateful words Duty's seem like
inherently racist words no they're just
words that are unknown to a system but
could a system understand the meaning of
what the daily stormer is it's a
neo-nazi blog or who or what what
traditionalist means it's it's a
specific kind of community that comes
out of neo-nazism
it's a return to a traditional lifestyle
it also promotes a lifestyle for just
whites only and also the removal of Jews
what a machine necessarily know that and
they wouldn't I think of this data set
as a form of protest and and also for my
art practice to highlight bias inside
the systems we exist in my application
to BuzzFeed and IBM had a provocation
chem machine learning mitigate or
analyze online harassment I think that
it can but there are certain things we
have to teach machines and this is where
a lot of my practice becomes incredibly
collaborative I have to teach a machine
to understand what these words are
which means I have to teach all these
different slices of what these words
mean some words inside the alt-right or
neo-nazi summer wife
I miss and summer white nationalist
there are some words that existence I
have Twitter that are really good it's
like teaching a child this may be really
hot this may be really warm and this may
be really cold you have to show all the
different slices of that this database
actually is currently being used by
ProPublica for their documenting hate
project additionally this research has
been guided by a collaboration between
myself and the Southern Poverty Law
Center I'm designing it too I'm
designing to try to highlight the kind
of toxicity that can exist inside of
these systems but could an AI system
alone recognize these words without the
guidance of an ethnographer it probably
couldn't and in fact it can this is an
example of Google's perspective API
which is still in alpha and while while
I can recognize contingence kinds of
regular interactions it can't recognize
this statement according to the ADL this
is the most popular white supremacy
phrase but what makes it hateful is it
is it secure plus exists and that
predates future and white children or is
it the intentionality behind the
statement who uses it how would you
teach a system this kind of context you
need guidance from a human counterpart
you need someone to highlight the
context of this so I've been thinking
about what the creation of this data set
how I can then move this into the work
I've been doing into a more kind of
symbiotic and collaborative space so I
created an art project with my
collaborator Ross Goodwin and we are
creating a system and a way to annotate
Richard Spencer's tweets like live
annotation and then hopefully create
enough of a data set to where it can
start auto tagging how exactly we're
going about doing this while we're using
chatbot infrastructure called with AI a
lot of this is trying to highlight the
dog whistle that exists inside of the
the text that he creates and the kinds
of statements he makes again things that
can read an oculist to us actually
aren't innocuous at all I still think
it's funny that we're using chat bot
software to annotate this corpus
this is another project that I'm doing
with my collaborator Francis Singh where
we scraped all the images I'll be
alright subreddit and now the Donalds
subreddit and we're trying to create a
corpus different kinds of memetic
culture and memes that exist inside of
the alt-right so we're having to go
through and hand tag and this is a
screenshot of just something I was doing
earlier today the ideas eventually we
will have enough different kinds of
groups of sections of the images that
exist inside of this space and again a
lot of these things are using more
hidden terms such as white pill which is
a hashtag that is used by the alt-right
for when they're feeling bad and they
want to see something good that promotes
white identity looks look through it at
your own risk on Twitter it's often
pictures of white women or children the
hope is that we can generate enough data
where human will won't have to Auto tag
every day but it can start to be filled
in with the help of an algorithm and
that an algorithm can help them look at
new emerging micro trends that emerge
inside of this data set the idea is that
it's a collaborative space together what
is shared emotional labor looked like
between human and machine while we're
trying to figure it out with these
series of experiments so the opening
slide was a bit of a misnomer the future
isn't comfortable I don't think it's
about Roombas or front desk assistance I
think the future is about collaboration
and data currently as a bit of a break
from the previous projects I've been
thinking about a way to create more
protest datasets I view the previous
work I've been doing as my own way of
punching a Nazi how do you analyze
language that exists inside these public
systems we use but also how do you shine
a light on it but I've been thinking
more more and more about how do you
create something that's a reaction to
this hate speech database database and
dictionary we wanting to create a
collaborative feminist dataset one that
requires collection and training I want
to create more equity inside of machine
learning but to do that I need more data
and I need unbiased data we need
intentional data we need consensual data
data people choose to give up data that
collectively we can train together data
that people can help build out
when I dream of the future of our
official intelligence I don't dream of
an AI assistant I dream of collaborative
systems I dream of patterns created from
human whimsy an open-source data and
open source image archives I dream of
transparency but I don't dream of Hal or
Rosie what can we build and we stop what
can we build when we stop building our
parents dreams and we start dreaming our
own dreams around artificial
intelligence thank you